JHipster leverages Liquibase for managing the
generated application's database schema.
If you're familiar with this tool, feel free to skip past this description.
Liquibase acts as source code control for your database,
supporting concepts such as incremental changes,
and versioning.
On my projects,
I've leveraged this concept of database scheme management in both a local
development environment and in a deployed server environment.
Locally,
I can use it to ensure that my database is the right
version for my development task.
I can also revert my schema to support previous code releases.
I've also used it as part of running integration tests in
a continuous integration environment.
As you'll see shortly,
Liquibase leverages incremental change logs to
capture the evolution of your schema.
These logs can be manually created,
or reverse engineered from an existing database.
When your application starts,
Liquibase will run the logs in the order that you specify.
You could also configure Liquibase to always drop and reload your
entire database each time the server starts.
Once the schema has been updated,
you can tell Liquibase to initialize your tables with data from a source,
such as a CSV file.
Now that you have a high-level understanding of Liquibase,
let's start to make changes to the code to switch from
the user role to a patient role.
When we started the application server up,
Liquibase ran and generated a database schema.
Since we're going to change the foundational schema,
one consideration that we need to make is to have Liquibase drop the
schema and recreate the database from scratch.
We can do that by setting a property called drop-first to true.
This property will be added to a configuration file that's used by Spring Boot.
You can find the file in the main resources directory under the config folder.
We're going to only change the file application-dev,
as we just want to drop the schema first when we're running
in a development spring profile mode.
Let's make these changes now.
I've opened up Eclipse, and I have the project loaded up in the work space.
I've gone ahead and I've opened up the application-dev.
yml file, which is being displayed right now in the editor.
I'm going to scroll down to the property called liquibase.
We can see here that JHipster has already generated a property for Liquibase.
We're going to add drop-first: true, and that will allow us to drop our schema.
I'll save this,
and again using this configuration for development really
depends on the type of project you're doing.
Most commonly, you'll keep this value set to false,
as you'll only want to switch it on and off when you
need to start with fresh data.
You may not use this configuration for applications with a lot of reads,
as you'll have little need to recreate every time.
Reloading the database each time you start a server
can be really time consuming.
If you do a lot of rights in the application,
it might be helpful to start with a fresh database each time.
Be careful to ensure that your data is loaded via scripts or
server restarts are going to wipe your data.
You can also consider this flag for integration tests where you need the
data in a certain state each time you run the tests.
Now that we have the configuration in place,
let's discuss how we can change the role.
I'm going to walk you through the structure for Liquibase files in the project.
At the root is the master.
xml file.
Liquibase supports other file formats, but JHipster defaulted to generating XML.
This file references and defines the order of change logs.
Under master.
xml, we see the first change log.
The prefix to the file contains a number.
Oftentimes I've used this number to represent the
date and time of the schema change.
The second part of the prefix is a description of the change.
Again, this file is XML based, it contains the actual database scripts to run,
including table creation, sequence creation,
and indexes.
Later in the course,
we'll be creating another one of these change logs to
store appointment request data.
Under the change log are three CSV files.
They contain actual data that will be loaded into the tables by Liquibase.
This is how JHipster prepopulates the user accounts,
and roles for the security implementation.
We're going to change the authorities in users_authorities file.
We just simply want to replace ROLE_USER with ROLE_PATIENT.
So let's do that now.
I've once again opened up Eclipse,
and I have the authorities and users_authorties.
csv files opened.
First, let's look at authorities.
We're just going to replace ROLE_USER here with ROLE_PATIENT.
Again, we're doing this because we eventually want to have more roles,
such as a physician or a scheduler, and don't want this generic user.
I'll save that, and now let's look at the users_authorities file.
This table is just going to join users to their authorities.
We need to replace ROLE_USER again with ROLE_PATIENT.
The three users that are listed here are system, admin, and user.
So all three will now have the patient role going forward.
Once again saved it, and that's it for the database change.
Now when we restart the server,
the database objects will be dropped and the role will be changed. The next step is to modify the server-side code to use this new role name.